Dario/vite plugin better debugging experience (#8441)
cloudflare/workers-sdk: packages/vite-plugin-cloudflare/README.md

Author: oops! 😓👍

Author: done! 🙂

  All requests are routed through your entry Worker.
  During the build, each Worker is output to a separate subdirectory of `dist`.

- `inspectorPort?: number | false`

>   Optional inspector port to use for debugging your workers, for more details on debugging see the [devtools section](#devtools). Can be set to `false` to disable the debugging inspector altogether. Defaults to `9229`.

Author: I'm purposely not mentioning `0` as an option here as I've noticed that that is probably a bit buggy right now, I'll look into that in a follow up PR (if that's ok by you) and once it works correctly I'll update the text here.

Navigating to such route will open a devtools tab for each of the workers in your application (Note: In case of multiple workers you might need to allow your browser to open pop-ups).

Once the tab or tabs are open, you can make a request to your application and start debugging your worker's code.

### VS Code

To setup VS Code for breakpoint debugging for your application, you will need to create a `.vscode/launch.json` file that contains a configuration following this structure:

```json
{
  "configurations": [
    {
      "name": "worker1",
      "type": "node",
      "request": "attach",
      "websocketAddress": "ws://localhost:9229/<NAME_OF_WORKER>",
      "cwd": "/",
      "resolveSourceMapLocations": null,
      "attachExistingChildren": false,
      "autoAttachChildProcesses": false,
      "sourceMaps": true
    }
  ],
  "compounds": [
    {
      "name": "Debug Workers",
      "configurations": ["worker1"],
      "stopAll": true
    }
  ]

> }

Author: TODO: I need to validate this and see if all the fields are actually necessary

Author: done 🙂

Navigating to such route will open a devtools tab for each of the workers in your application (Note: In case of multiple workers you might need to allow your browser to open pop-ups).

Once the tab or tabs are open, you can make a request to your application and start debugging your workers' code.

Note: If you're not interested in debugging all your workers you can close the tabs of the workers you don't want to debug.

### VS Code

To setup VS Code for breakpoint debugging for your application, you will need to create a `.vscode/launch.json` file that contains a configuration following this structure:

```json
{
  "configurations": [
    {
      "name": "Debug Worker1",
      "type": "node",
      "request": "attach",
      "websocketAddress": "ws://localhost:9229/<NAME_OF_WORKER>",
      "resolveSourceMapLocations": null,
      "attachExistingChildren": false,
      "autoAttachChildProcesses": false,
      "sourceMaps": true
    }
  ],
  "compounds": [
    {
      "name": "Debug All Workers",

>       "configurations": ["Worker1"],

Author: yes, I guess this doesn't make it clear? 😓

>       "configurations": ["Worker1"],

Author: By the way, I also want to mention.... this configuration is a bit silly for a single worker... (since it gives you a configuration for "all workers" which only includes a single worker + the configuration for that single worker 😅)

The nice part is that it can be generalized for 1 or more workers (instead of the README being more verbose having separate instructions for one or multiple workers 😕)

> [!NOTE]
> The `vite build` command copies the relevant `.dev.vars[.env-name]` file to the output directory. This is only used when running `vite preview` and is not deployed with your Worker.

## Debugging

The Cloudflare Vite plugin allows you to conveniently debug your Worker code during local development.

> By default the inspector port used by the plugin is `9229`, you can customize such by providing a different port to the plugin's `inspectorPort` option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default the inspector port used by the plugin is `9229`, which can be customized by providing a different port to the plugin's `inspectorPort` option.
```

There are two recommended ways of doing so, which we'll explore in this section.

### Devtools

> When running `vite dev` or `vite preview` a convenient `/__debug` route in your local server will be made available which gives you access to [Cloudflare's implementation](/packages/chrome-devtools-patches) of [Chrome's DevTools](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/overview).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When running `vite dev` or `vite preview` a `/__debug` route in your local server will be made available which gives you access to [Cloudflare's implementation](/packages/chrome-devtools-patches) of [Chrome's DevTools](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/overview).
```

> Navigating to such route will open a devtools tab for each of the workers in your application (Note: In case of multiple workers you might need to allow your browser to open pop-ups).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigating to this route will open a devtools tab for each of the workers in your application (Note: in case of multiple workers you might need to allow your browser to open pop-ups).
```

### VS Code

To setup VS Code for breakpoint debugging for your application, you will need to create a `.vscode/launch.json` file that contains a configuration following this structure:

```json
{
  "configurations": [
    {
      "name": "<NAME_OF_WORKER>",
      "type": "node",
      "request": "attach",
      "websocketAddress": "ws://localhost:9229/<NAME_OF_WORKER>",
      "resolveSourceMapLocations": null,
      "attachExistingChildren": false,
      "autoAttachChildProcesses": false,
      "sourceMaps": true
    }
  ],
  "compounds": [
    {
      "name": "Debug All Workers",
      "configurations": ["<NAME_OF_WORKER>"],
      "stopAll": true
    }
  ]
}
```

Where, `<NAME_OF_WORKER>` indicates the name of your worker as specified in your Wrangler configuration.

Note: if you customized your `inspectorPort` you need to use that port in the `websocketAddress` field.

If you have more than one worker you need add a configuration in the `configurations` field for each one and then include the configuration name in the `configurations` array in the compound configuration.

> Once you're `launch.json` file is ready, after running `vite dev` or `vite preview` you can select **Debug All Workers** at the top of the **Run & Debug** panel to attach debuggers to all the various Workers. Then you can add breakpoints to your code and start debugging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once your `launch.json` file is ready, after running `vite dev` or `vite preview` you can select **Debug All Workers** at the top of the **Run & Debug** panel to attach debuggers to all the various Workers. Then you can add breakpoints to your code and start debugging.
```

Author: 🤦
